SQL is a standard language for storing, manipulating and retrieving data in databases.
SQL stands for Structured Query Language



What Can SQL do?
SQL can execute queries against a database
SQL can retrieve data from a database
SQL can insert records in a database
SQL can update records in a database
SQL can delete records from a database
SQL can create new databases
SQL can create new tables in a database
SQL can create stored procedures in a database
SQL can create views in a database
SQL can set permissions on tables, procedures, and views



RDBMS
RDBMS stands for Relational Database Management System.
RDBMS is the basis for SQL, and for all modern database systems
such as MS SQL Server, IBM DB2, Oracle, MySQL, and Microsoft Access.

The data in RDBMS is stored in database objects called tables.
A table is a collection of related data entries and it consists of columns and rows.



Every table is broken up into smaller entities called fields.
The fields in the Customers table consist of CustomerID, CustomerName, ContactName,
Address, City, PostalCode and Country. A field is a column in 
a table that is designed to maintain specific information about every record in the table.

A record, also called a row, is each individual entry that exists in a table.
For example, there are 91 records in the above Customers table.

A record is a horizontal entity in a table.

A column is a vertical entity in a table that contains
all information associated with a specific field in a table.



SQL Syntax
SQL Statements
Most of the actions you need to perform on a database are done with SQL statements.
SQL statements consists of keywords that are easy to understand.
The following SQL statement returns all records from a table named "Customers":



Database Tables
A database most often contains one or more tables. Each table is identified by
a name (e.g. "Customers" or "Orders"), and contain records (rows) with data.

SQL keywords are NOT case sensitive: select is the same as SELECT
Semicolon is the standard way to separate each SQL statement in database
systems that allow more than one SQL statement to be executed in the same 
call to the server.



Some of The Most Important SQL Commands
SELECT - extracts data from a database
UPDATE - updates data in a database
DELETE - deletes data from a database
INSERT INTO - inserts new data into a database
CREATE DATABASE - creates a new database
ALTER DATABASE - modifies a database
CREATE TABLE - creates a new table
ALTER TABLE - modifies a table
DROP TABLE - deletes a table
CREATE INDEX - creates an index (search key)
DROP INDEX - deletes an index



SQL Aggregate Functions
An aggregate function is a function that performs a calculation on a set of values,
and returns a single value.
Aggregate functions are often used with the GROUP BY clause of the SELECT statement.
The GROUP BY clause splits the result-set into groups of values
and the aggregate function can be used to return a single value for each group.
The most commonly used SQL aggregate functions are:

MIN() - returns the smallest value within the selected column
MAX() - returns the largest value within the selected column
COUNT() - returns the number of rows in a set
SUM() - returns the total sum of a numerical column
AVG() - returns the average value of a numerical column
Aggregate functions ignore null values (except for COUNT()).